In India, there is unrest among youth, peasants, industrial workers, students, government employees, women, scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and the minorities. This unrest increases frustrations and strains which lead to the violation of legal and social norms. Crime Rate in India
is reported 385.5 in 2019 which has been increasing by upward trend since 1980 as per the data provided by National Crime Records Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs, and Government of India. An attempt is made to find the relationship between the crime rate and various other aspects using the various datasets having different parameters like population, area, literacy rate. It was very shocking to see that there are many states with a very high Literacy rate and contrarily a high crime rate too and on the other hand there are many states with almost nil crime rate. We analysed the crime data for different time frames like 2001-2011. We also analysed a recent data for 2020 and analysed the four major crime categories i.e Murder, Rape, Theft and Kidnapping and abduction and on the basis of the analysi we categorized the districts as sensitive, moderate and peaceful areas. D&N Haveli and Daman & Diu, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Goa are among the states with highest literacy rate and states with lowest literacy rate are Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar for the data for the data for the period of 2018-2021. Andhra Pradesh is among the states with lowest Literacy but the crimes committed are not lowest. UP, Maharashtra, TN, MP and Gujarat were among the states with maximum number of crimes and Lakshadweep, Sikkim, D&N Haveli and Daman & Diu are among the safest places with minimum crimes commited for the years. The crime in Kerala has increased a lot in comparison with year 2018 and its amont the top 5 states with maximum number of crimes along with Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat. Kerala is among the staes with highest litearcy but despite that the crimes commited are also among highest for the year 2019. In 2020, crimes in TN and Gujarat have increased and they were among the top states wrt to the number of crimes. Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala are among the states with max number of cromes committed in the year 2021. for 2018 Crime rate was highest in Delhi followed by Kerala, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. Crime rate was nil in Ladakh and Daman & Diu. For 2019 Crime rate was highest in Delhi followed by Kerala, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. Crime rate was nil in Ladakh and Daman & Diu. For 2020 there was a increase in crime rate in Tamil Nadu, it has shown the highest crime rate in the year 2020. There was a spike in crime rate in the state of Kerala and Gujarat. Crimes were also observed in Daman & Diu and Andaman and Nikobar Islands. Crime rate in Kerala and Delhi has shown a sharp increase and they are showing the highest crime rate. While there is a decrease in Tamil Nadu's crime rate during 2021. On the basis of area of the states we found that Rajasthan was the biggest state in terms of area followed by MP, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. There was a huge variation in crime rate in the state of Tamil Nadu over the years 2018 to 2021 and highest crime rate was observed in 2020. In the year 2021 maximum numbers of crimes were committed in the states of Gujarat and Tamil Nadu followed by UP, Maharashtra and Kerala. Kerala has a smaller area but the crime rate has incresed over the priod of time. Andhra Pardesh has big area but the number of crimes comitted is low over the years. Same is with Karnataka, Chattisgarh, J&K, Odisha and Rajasthan. UP has the maximum population and the total crimes comitted is also among highest over the period. Tamil Nadu has higher number of crimes comitted as compared with the population data. Population is not very high but the crimes committed was at the top. Gujarat has considerable higher crimes rate wrt to the population and so is with Kerala, Goa, himachal Pradesh and Delhi. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, West Bengal are among the states with less crime wrt the population. 
Although crime rate has reduced in Kerala in year 2019 as compared to year 2018.It was a great insight working on the analysis of Crimes in India dataset. We used various methods to analyse the various problem using comparison and visualisation. For proper analysis there are some more factors which should have been taken like income, family background and many other factors which also play a very vital role in the accurate analysis of the various types of crimes.   